The phrase has many meanings and is varied based on context. In this work here, I am looking at decolonization of computer science and STEM subjects in secondary school leading to post-secondary study for Indigenous students in North America (I hope this work will be useful to others, but my context is local in this work). When I refer to decolonizing digital media, I mean empowering Indigenous people to use the tools, skills, and expertise needed to create, manipulate, and explore digital media themselves. This approach shifts the focus away from relying on non-Indigenous people to build tools for Indigenous communities. Instead, it's about fostering a sense of autonomy and self-sufficiency in using digital media to serve Indigenous communities directly. Ultimately, I aim to explore ideas around moving beyond the corporate-driven, profit-oriented use of digital media tools and towards a model that prioritizes community-centred (Odenang), Indigenous-led development. This approach aligns with Gerald Vizenor's concept of 'survivance' and Leroy Little Bear's notion of 'survivability,' emphasizing the use of digital media tools to support the resurgence of Indigenous knowledge in Indigenous communities. At this moment I see decolonization as the use of digital tools by non-colonial peoples to maintain and lift up their communities as separate (though still related) streams of being from the dominant colonial societies that surround them.

[[Inquiry into Indigenous Digital Media]]
[[Relational Digital Media Tools]]
[[Cultural Appropriation]]
[[Accessibility of Technology]]

