As mentioned in other parts of this site, the work here has been written as a response to a directed reading course. The title of the site is “giigdo” which means “he or she speaks” in Nishnaabemowin. It would make sense at this point to let you know who is speaking and why that language.
I am Andrew McConnell, and I am a member of Nipissing First Nation (one of the many Indigenous nations within the lands claimed by Canada) who lives in the Toronto area. I have (at the time I am writing this) nearly 20 years of experience in education, working in technological and Indigenous teaching. My current work is trying to reimagine STEM education for Indigenous youth in mainstream schooling by integrating traditional knowledge and experiences to challenge the conventional STEM approach in secondary schools that does not connect to Indigenous realities. The reason I am referencing Nishnaabemowin (the Nishnaabe language) is it is language of my grandmother, my ancestors and one I am trying to use more in my life.
I want to develop ways to connect students with community knowledge keepers, preserve local languages and historical knowledge of the land while building the content knowledge and skills needed to enter post-secondary STEM studies. This site is just one effort to explore how our knowledge and stories can be combined with the many digital media tools out there (and those yet to exist) to preserve knowledge in our communities so that it can be shared with others and promote a better way of living with the world.

[[Directed Reading Project]]
